# Generating a new project

In every project there are different ways to start. Most of them concern scaffolding tools like Yeoman or Slush. These tools generate a starter project, help you generate needed files, and take care of building and running the project.
Other ways to start are using starter kits, also called seed projects, which contain all you need to start the project.
Unlike scaffolding tools, starter kits are relevant only for the initial project. After installation, you probably won't use that kit again. \(If it's a good starter kit, maybe you'll go back to read the documentation.\)

Regarding Angular, the easiest way to start is the Angular CLI, which is a scaffolding tool. We will cover its use in this tutorial.

In this chapter, we show all the files and folders that are created by the Angular CLI when you create a new project.

## Creating a new project

The first thing to start with when you work with the CLI is scaffolding the initial project.
To do so, you can simply create a folder and run the `ng init` command inside it:

```
mkdir todo-list
cd todo-list
ng init
```

From that point, the Angular CLI will download all the dependencies and install them.

Another way to scaffold the initial project is by running `ng new <project-name>`, and the CLI will create the folder and run `ng init` for you in that folder:

```
ng new todo-list
```

(You'll still have to change into the project directory with `cd todo-list` yourself, however.)

## Application prefix

One of the first actions you'll want to take when creating a project is setting the application prefix.

The prefix is used to differentiate the components that you create in your application from components you use from other sources, and from HTML elements. You can use your initials as the prefix, for example, if it's a personal project. If you're collaborating or working for a client, you can use an abbreviation of the project name as the prefix. In this tutorial, the prefix will simply be `todo`.

We can define the prefix when the project is first created by using the `--prefix` option:

```
ng new todo-list --prefix=todo
```

Now even the root component that is generated by the CLI will have the `todo` prefix.

If you don't set the prefix when creating the project, you can change it later by modifying the Angular CLI configuration file. Open `.angular-cli.json`, find the `prefix` property, and change its value value from `app` to `todo`. From now on, each component and directive you create using the Angular CLI will have this prefix in its selector.

## Application structure

After we create the project, the project directory will contain the following files and directories (as well as a few others):

```
├── .angular-cli.json // Angular CLI configuration
├── e2e // end-to-end testing
├── karma.conf.js // unit testing configuration file
├── package.json // package configuration file
├── protractor.conf.js // end-to-end testing configuration file
├── README.md // your readme
├── src // your code in here
│   ├── app
│   │   ├── app.component.css
│   │   ├── app.component.html
│   │   ├── app.component.spec.ts
│   │   ├── app.component.ts
│   │   └── app.module.ts
│   ├── assets // pictures etc.
│   ├── environments // environment-specific settings
│   │   ├── environment.prod.ts
│   │   └── environment.ts
│   ├── favicon.ico // the browser icon
│   ├── index.html
│   ├── main.ts
│   ├── polyfills.ts
│   ├── styles.css
│   ├── test.ts
│   ├── tsconfig.app.json
│   ├── tsconfig.spec.json
│   └── typings.d.ts
├── tsconfig.json // TypeScript configuration
└── tslint.json // TypeScript linter configuration
```

Let's skip all the configuration files for now and jump right to the folder structure.
The `app` folder contains the root component of the application, and it's the point where our app starts.
We will cover components in more depth elsewhere in the tutorial, but the main idea of the project is that we create components and connect them to each other until we have an application.

With the Angular CLI, we can generate components and some other files which can help us in the future.
To do so, we'll run `ng generate component <component name>` for components, `ng generate service <service name>` for services, etc., for many parts of an Angular application, which you can read more about in the [Angular CLI documentation](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli#generating-components-directives-pipes-and-services).

Now you're probably wondering, "How do I see and review my application?"
The command for that is `ng serve`, and you'll be able to access your app at <http://localhost:4200>.
Last but not least, if you want to build your application for production, you can run `ng build`.

And there you have it, an easy way to scaffold your Angular application!

